So, I've got this video of Hyundai's
plant at HMG Metal Plant America up. How
about you tell us a little bit about
what you see in that plant and then
we'll get into why we need a generalist
for it. That's one of the many carb
manufacturing plants we've visited and
HMGMA is one of the newest one. So, it
has the highest ratio of automation, but
despite that, once you visit it, you
realize that there's still many uh tasks
that are still for the most part done
manually. And the first thing that comes
to mind when you visit that plant is
that those tasks are on one hand very
hard, very complex. There's tons of
variability that comes with adapting
with the large variety of objects that
go into assembling a car. Tons of very
dextrous tasks like using tools,
assemblies, handling small parts. But if
you talk to manufacturing engineers,
they will tell you that the reason why
they're not automated is not because of
how complex they are. They have great
solutions, lots of technologies to
automate it. It's just it takes too much
space. It takes too much engineering,
too much cost to automate each one of
those. Uh there's just too many. There's
thousands. So special purpose solution
for each one of them is just not
economically viable.
>> So there's like the conventional
manufacturing automation world where if
you want to say bolt a wheel onto a car,
you would commission a machine that
bolts a wheel onto that car. And that
machine probably has a general purpose
robot arm in it. But it's still like a
thing where you're going to write a
specification. I want my wheelbolter
runner machine and a bunch of
manufacturing and automation engineers
are going to design that machine for
you, make a special end defector for
that arm and install it on the line.
There's going to be a bolt vibratory
bolt feeder and all all the all the
stuff.
>> You're going to need tons of uh pro
specialized programming to make the
machines work.
>> Yep. Um and so like when you look at a
car plant, we're looking at a bunch of
tasks from uh real Hyundai plants here.
There's probably tens of thousands of
different tasks that need to be done in
that plant. And the thing that you
really rapidly get to is if you're going
to design automation for each of those
things, uh you'd be uh spending way more
than it's worth to automate those tasks
and you'd probably be well into the next
century. Yeah,
>> like an average estimate of like how
long it takes for any any one of those
um integration efforts um it's in the
order of about a year and north of a
million dollars for any step that you
want to automate. That's sort of the the
state-of-the-art today.
>> You you turn over the model year every
year. So you change a bunch of trim
parts, interior technology and stuff and
then you do a major model line refresh
say every 5 years. So it's that
variability that really u puts a ceiling
to um like traditional automation right
how what the core question is how do we
make something that is more flexible
that provides uh at the degree of
generality so that you can automate
those tasks.
>> Uh do you want to walk us through a
little bit of a a map of kind of how
robotics was previously in the world
we're headed to?
>> Yeah. Um so there's like a spectrum
right so classical robotics like four
years ago [laughter]
we build specialized models for as I
describing earlier for perception
specialized models for high level
coordination specialized models for
manipulation
>> even specialized models for mobility now
we've agreed that maintaining and uh
evolving all of those models with all
that complexity is not a scalable
process.
>> On the other end, you have a fully end
to-end solution where robots ingest
pixels uh or row information from
sensors and at the output you produce
torqus or currents that go to the
actuators.
>> Yeah,
>> we know how to train uh these more
abstract systems through expedience. The
complexity is the scale of data that is
necessary, right? And like LLMs today
are a perfect example. If you have
enough data um you can rely on uh raw
representations like not just LLMs but
like video model prediction
>> uh systems right you can rely on raw
representations to train really highly
performance systems what's the degree in
between where an actual practical
solution is going to land on uh for
example for manufacturing um it's still
a question right like you might want to
benefit from the fact that manufacturing
provides a little bit of structuring. So
you know which objects are going to be
ahead of time, you know, um the uh
furniture and fixture you're going to
encounter with. So you might want to put
that into pre-training.
>> Yep. So in that the spectrum from fully
model based to fully end to end trained
uh there's different progressions of
abstracting more and more layers of like
perception
um high level cognition um dexterity
and the mobility.
>> Got it. So like in the large behavior
model video and the associated paper
with it like where in that progression
is Atlas at that point in time. So
that's a great example. That is not a
system that ingests pixels and outputs
torqus, right? It's a system that
ingests pixels and it outputs commands
to more abstract representation of what
a robot should do. So it provides
commands for what the endeector should
do, what the feet should do, what the
torso, what the hands should do. Yes.
Yeah.
>> Hands, feet and torso should do. Below
that we have a very powerful whole body
controller that consumes that and
realizes that on the robot.
>> Y
>> right. So um that provides a layer of
abstraction that makes learning simpler
and reduces the amount of data that we
need to generate but still allows us to
exploit the high agility and strength of
a platform of a humanoid platform like
like Atlas. I mean, that's tricky
because like that that's not just a
technology progression thing. Like there
there's real frequency separation
between what Atlas is doing like with
its actuators versus like looking at a
scene and deciding what you need to do
next? Like is it necessarily a given
that should be one neural network?
>> No. Uh absolutely it's not a given that
it should be just one single neural
network. In fact, it is pretty common
for especially dynamic balancing robots
like humanoids or quadruplets to rely on
what we call system one, system two
separation where you have a system at
the lowest level which takes care of
whole body control. That the system that
needs to run very fast and needs to know
and understand sort of the extent of the
strength and the balance of the robot.
It needs to know that you shouldn't move
your hand too fast over in this
direction without counterbalancing.
>> Sure. So that's like your in humans
that'd be like your cerebellum in your
nervous system.
>> So it's unclear that you might want to
force everything else in your system
that is in charge of acquiring common
sense to also have to learn in
particular for Dexter's manipulation.
>> Okay. So we got a complete plan to build
a robot brain.
>> Yeah, we should. Now we just need to
execute.
>> Um, so let's let's Yeah. So like let's
go back and recap like so what does it
mean to build it generalist and like
what are the essential uh
characteristics of that thing? Uh or
what are the characteristics that thing
will have to have for us to be
successful in putting humanoids to work?
>> I would say that there's like four core
tenants, right? So general purpose
hardware and you've talked about it um
ease of retasking very important um to
avoid the issues with the cost of
integration of every sing uh every
single task. Ease of retasking and
getting to a point where it's not months
but rather it's days or hours what it
takes to get a robot to do a certain
job. Yeah,
>> natural interfaces for interacting with
the robot rather than requiring expert
programming. Um, as and our customers
will want a more natural way to tell
robots what to do either with natural
language or with direct demonstrations.
And the fourth one, safety around
people.
>> Did you get reliability in there?
[laughter]
>> Uh, yes. Um, I did not get it. But
>> so we got five. Let's Okay, let's say
let's say five.
>> Yeah. So, we're building this general
purpose robot. We're building a general
purpose robot brain. In conjunction with
that, one of the really cool things
about working with the Hyundai group is
we're not just building this robot in a
vacuum. like we're also redesigning car
plants and redesigning general
manufacturing facilities alongside
understanding what Atlas's capabilities
will be. Can you tell me a little bit
about what's exciting about that to you?
>> The first one is that I think working
with Hyundai has made the mission very
clear.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. like our mission is to transform
manufacturing
and um once you know that that's clear
it's um it relieves a lot of pressure
and stress of like actually thinking and
dreaming about any other application
domain where you could also be working
which there are many and which we might
go also after but what's non-negotiable
is that we need to solve and transform
manufacturing so that has in um I think
exciting to me the fact that we have a
clear mission which is very hard but it
is clear. Yeah, that I mean that was
honestly one of the hardest parts of the
early days of spot was you we had this
amazing robot and we had so many
application ideas for you know what it
could be really really useful for like
today we look at spot and we see it
being used all over in these industrial
inspection applications and it seems
obvious now but like in the early days
we were spread really thin and between
so many different applications testing
and trying to do demos of each of them.
It's really really refreshing [laughter]
with Atlas knowing that you know if we
can just solve this manufacturing
problem that we can be successful and
then we can go into the rest of the
stuff. You know we can we're not going
to stop at manufacturing. We're going to
do curbto delivery. We're going to put
robots in your home, clean your tables,
make your bed, but we know which one we
have to do first.
>> Like before joining BD, I was faculty at
MIT. And as faculty, um um the journey
is always about finding the right
motivation to solve the problem that you
think you should be solving, right? Like
you always have to convince yourself
actually am I solving the right problem
or am I confused? Should I should be
solving a different one? Um, so the
change to BD has been refreshing also
because of that like I don't have to ask
that question myself anymore. I know
what problem I need to solve.
>> Yeah, I I feel the same way. What do you
think your team looks forward to and
enjoys the most dayto-day?
>> I think the team is very excited about
um
I don't know if the team but myself I am
very excited about the prospects of
really enabling Dexter's manipulation.
Mhm.
>> I think that that is the ultimate
frontier of what it means to do general
purpose work. Um and um BD is a place
where you get to experience both the
design and fabrication of
um high-end um Dextrous grippers and you
get to experience the development of the
techniques that are going to get those
grippers to do very cool things like
using tools like handling objects. Um,
and to me experiencing that and seeing
that sort of rapidly progressing is
fascinating.
>> The uh I got to answer this myself. I
have so much fun. The you know the the
really special thing about robotics as
opposed to any other place that you
could be working in machine learning or
really in any of the functional
disciplines is that like we we do the
whole thing. Like so you mentioned, you
know, folks at Boston Dynamics design
grippers and like if you're a machine
learning researcher, you get to talk to
the folks that design the fingertips
dayto day, argue with them, you get to
see your stuff show up in the hands 3
months later. Um, and it extends all the
way through the other side too. So like
we have folks who work on robots
daytoday, diagnose things. We also have
folks who, you know, sit 15 ft further
away from the robots in the lab who
think about how do I wrangle a thousand
GPUs to run this training job faster.
Like you you see every aspect of putting
a robot together all in one room.
>> Yep.
>> I don't think it's it's there's very few
places in the world where you can get
that.
>> It's very exciting.
>> Well, thanks Alberto. Thanks for telling
us what's going on on the ML side of
Atlas. Um, and we'll uh I know we'll
have to see how fast uh we we get to
that full generalist.
>> Yes.